**Genomic Analysis and Prediction of Complex Traits**. Development and evaluation of methods and software for analysis and prediction of complex traits using high-dimensional genomic data (e.g., SNPs, genotyping by sequencing, and other types of sequence data). Our research in this area has focused on the use of shrinkage and variable selection in parametric models, as well as on the use of some semi-parametric methods (e.g., RKHS).

**Genomics x Environment**. Development of methods for integrating high-dimensional genomic and environmental data in a unified framework. We have developed methods that can model interactions between high-dimensional marker panels and high-dimensional environmental covariates. These methods were originally developed and tested with data from wheat trails. We are currently extending some of these methods for analysis of complex human traits and diseases.

**Integration of Data from Multiple Omics Layers**. Development of models and software for integrating high-dimensional multi-layer omics data. Our focus is on methods that can integrate whole-omics profiles and can model interactions between two or more high-dimensional predictor sets (e.g., genome-by-methylome interactions). We are currently working on using these methods for prediction of breast cancer outcomes and in plant omics applications.

**Software development for analysis of big omics data**. We have developed several R packages for genetic analysis using pedigrees, genomes and other omics (see software below for further details).

**Genomic Analysis of Obesity and Response to Exercise**. We maintain an active collaboration with researchers from the [TIGER (Training Interventions and Genetics of Exercise Response)](http://tigerstudy.org/) study, developing and implementing methods for the identification of genetic factors influencing Body Composition and Response to Exercise Intervention.
